quantitative-finance/getting-started.md, before:

## Quant Finance Learning – The Most Important Book

- **Paul Wilmott Introduces Quantitative Finance, 2nd Edition**

This is the single best book to start with. Read it cover to cover.

If you are currently studying a quantitative finance program I would further recommend **Paul Wilmott on Quantitative Finance** 3 volume series. _Note the first volume is the introduction book mentioned above_.

## Statistics

- _Statistical Quantitative Methods in Finance: From Theory to Quantitative Portfolio Management_ by Samit Ahlawat
- _Quantitative Methods in Finance_ by Eric Vansteenberghe ([SSRN](https://ssrn.com/abstract=5178205) or [DOI](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5178205))
- _Statistical Analysis of Financial Data in R_ by Rene Carmona
- _Modern Statistics: A Computer-Based Approach with Python_
- _The Elements of Statistical Learning_ (Hastie, Tibshirani, Friedman)
- _Theory of Statistics_ by Mark J. Schervish

---

## Programming

#### Becoming Great at Python (a popular weapon of the quantitative researcher)

- If you don’t know Python at all, start with [JP Morgan Python Training](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/python-training/tree/main)
- Then do an introductory book like: [Python For Finance Cookbook](https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Python-for-Finance-Cookbook/tree/master)
- _Advanced Python Programming_ (Packt)
- Be a better software engineer: Arjan Codes [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/ArjanCodes)

---

#### Core Finance Skills: Pandas, Numpy, and Scipy – Free Resources

- _Python Programming for Economics and Finance_ [(QuantEcon)](https://python-programming.quantecon.org/intro.html)
- _Python for Data Analysis, 3rd Edition_ by Wes McKinney [(online)](https://wesmckinney.com/book/)

### Implementing Quant Finance with Python

- Implementing Derivatives Models [(online)](https://www.amazon.it/Implementing-Derivatives-Models-Clewlow/dp/0471966517)
- QuantLib Python Tutorials [(online)](https://gouthamanbalaraman.com/blog/quantlib-python-tutorials-with-examples.html)
- QuantLib Guide [(online)](https://www.quantlibguide.com/)

---

## Interview Preparation

- _Frequently Asked Questions in Quantitative Finance_ (Paul Wilmott)
- _A Practical Guide to Quantitative Finance Interviews_ (the green book)
- _Heard on The Street: Quantitative Questions from Wall Street Job Interviews_ (Timothy Crack)

---

## Advanced Topics and Practical Guidance

- _Options Volatility and Pricing_ by Sheldon Natenberg
- _Advances in Financial Machine Learning_ by Marcos Lopez de Prado
- _Finding Alphas_ by Igor Tulchinsky
- _Portfolio Optimization Book_ by Daniel P. Palomar [(online)](https://portfoliooptimizationbook.com/)
- _Advances in Active Portfolio Management_ by Richard C. Grinold and Ronald N. Kahn
- _The Elements of Quantitative Investing_ by Giuseppe Andrea Paleologo
- _Quantitative Portfolio Management_ by Michael Isichenko

---

## Fun Online Resources

- Bocconi Students Investment Club - Student written articles and resources [(online)](https://bsic.it/a-primer-on-yield-curve-construction/)
- Quant Guild - market maketing games and learning how to capitalize on edge [(online)](https://quantguild.com/)
- Computational Finance Course (Lech Grzelak) [(online)](https://github.com/LechGrzelak/Computational-Finance-Course)
- Financial Models Numerical Methods [(online)](https://github.com/cantaro86/Financial-Models-Numerical-Methods/tree/master)
- Quant Stack Exchange [(online)](https://quant.stackexchange.com/)
- Quantitative analysis, strategies and backtests. Great example of Quantitative Research (blog style with jupyter notebooks). [QuantResearch](https://github.com/letianzj/QuantResearch)
- A curated list of insanely awesome libraries, packages and resources for Quants (Quantitative Finance). [awesome-quant](https://github.com/wilsonfreitas/awesome-quant)

---

## Final Learning Advice

1. Start with Wilmott’s book and basic Python.
2. Work through the interview books and online resources.
3. Learn statistics and portfolio optimization.
4. Practice coding and implementing models in Python.
5. Use Stack Exchange and GitHub to find answers and code examples.
6. Don’t just read—build, code, and experiment.

## Closing Thoughts

Don't start anything from scratch, complete a literature review (however brief) and build on the solutions of others who have come before you!

- If you need to value vanilla/complex derivaties, use [QuantLib](https://www.quantlib.org/)
- If you want to perform portfolio optimisation, start with [Riskfolio-Lib](https://github.com/dcajasn/Riskfolio-Lib/tree/master)
- If you are looking to integrate machine learning into your financial analysis, build on [mlfinlab](https://github.com/hudson-and-thames/mlfinlab)
- QuantStats Python library that performs portfolio profiling, allowing quants and portfolio managers to understand their performance better by providing them with in-depth analytics and risk metrics. [QuantStats](https://github.com/ranaroussi/quantstats)

## If you do the above, you’ll be in a much stronger position to succeed in quant finance.

Commit message:

added the financial modelers manifesto and lets be rational

quantitative-finance/getting-started.md, after:

## Quant Finance Learning – The Most Important Book

- **Paul Wilmott Introduces Quantitative Finance, 2nd Edition**

This is the single best book to start with. Read it cover to cover.

If you are currently studying a quantitative finance program I would further recommend **Paul Wilmott on Quantitative Finance** 3 volume series. _Note the first volume is the introduction book mentioned above_.

## Statistics

- _Statistical Quantitative Methods in Finance: From Theory to Quantitative Portfolio Management_ by Samit Ahlawat
- _Quantitative Methods in Finance_ by Eric Vansteenberghe ([SSRN](https://ssrn.com/abstract=5178205) or [DOI](http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5178205))
- _Statistical Analysis of Financial Data in R_ by Rene Carmona
- _Modern Statistics: A Computer-Based Approach with Python_
- _The Elements of Statistical Learning_ (Hastie, Tibshirani, Friedman)
- _Theory of Statistics_ by Mark J. Schervish

---

## Programming

#### Becoming Great at Python (a popular weapon of the quantitative researcher)

- If you don’t know Python at all, start with [JP Morgan Python Training](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/python-training/tree/main)
- Then do an introductory book like: [Python For Finance Cookbook](https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Python-for-Finance-Cookbook/tree/master)
- _Advanced Python Programming_ (Packt)
- Be a better software engineer: Arjan Codes [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/ArjanCodes)

---

#### Core Finance Skills: Pandas, Numpy, and Scipy – Free Resources

- _Python Programming for Economics and Finance_ [(QuantEcon)](https://python-programming.quantecon.org/intro.html)
- _Python for Data Analysis, 3rd Edition_ by Wes McKinney [(online)](https://wesmckinney.com/book/)

### Implementing Quant Finance with Python

- Implementing Derivatives Models [(online)](https://www.amazon.it/Implementing-Derivatives-Models-Clewlow/dp/0471966517)
- QuantLib Python Tutorials [(online)](https://gouthamanbalaraman.com/blog/quantlib-python-tutorials-with-examples.html)
- QuantLib Guide [(online)](https://www.quantlibguide.com/)

---

## Interview Preparation

- _Frequently Asked Questions in Quantitative Finance_ (Paul Wilmott)
- _A Practical Guide to Quantitative Finance Interviews_ (the green book)
- _Heard on The Street: Quantitative Questions from Wall Street Job Interviews_ (Timothy Crack)

---

## Advanced Topics and Practical Guidance

- _Options Volatility and Pricing_ by Sheldon Natenberg
- _Advances in Financial Machine Learning_ by Marcos Lopez de Prado
- _Finding Alphas_ by Igor Tulchinsky
- _Portfolio Optimization Book_ by Daniel P. Palomar [(online)](https://portfoliooptimizationbook.com/)
- _Advances in Active Portfolio Management_ by Richard C. Grinold and Ronald N. Kahn
- _The Elements of Quantitative Investing_ by Giuseppe Andrea Paleologo
- _Quantitative Portfolio Management_ by Michael Isichenko
- _Let's Be Rational_ by Peter Jackel [(online)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/wilm.10395)

---

## Fun Online Resources

- Bocconi Students Investment Club - Student written articles and resources [(online)](https://bsic.it/a-primer-on-yield-curve-construction/)
- Quant Guild - market maketing games and learning how to capitalize on edge [(online)](https://quantguild.com/)
- Computational Finance Course (Lech Grzelak) [(online)](https://github.com/LechGrzelak/Computational-Finance-Course)
- Financial Models Numerical Methods [(online)](https://github.com/cantaro86/Financial-Models-Numerical-Methods/tree/master)
- Quant Stack Exchange [(online)](https://quant.stackexchange.com/)
- Quantitative analysis, strategies and backtests. Great example of Quantitative Research (blog style with jupyter notebooks). [QuantResearch](https://github.com/letianzj/QuantResearch)
- A curated list of insanely awesome libraries, packages and resources for Quants (Quantitative Finance). [awesome-quant](https://github.com/wilsonfreitas/awesome-quant)

---

## Final Learning Advice

1. Start with Wilmott’s book and basic Python.
2. Work through the interview books and online resources.
3. Learn statistics and portfolio optimization.
4. Practice coding and implementing models in Python.
5. Use Stack Exchange and GitHub to find answers and code examples.
6. Don’t just read—build, code, and experiment.

## Closing Thoughts

Read [_The Financial Modeler's Manifesto_](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1324878), then read it again! If you are reading this github repository, you will likely be using models your entire working life, hold onto these recommendations and please follow them.

Don't start anything from scratch, complete a literature review (however brief) and build on the solutions of others who have come before you!

- If you need to value vanilla/complex derivaties, use [QuantLib](https://www.quantlib.org/)
- If you want to perform portfolio optimisation, start with [Riskfolio-Lib](https://github.com/dcajasn/Riskfolio-Lib/tree/master)
- If you are looking to integrate machine learning into your financial analysis, build on [mlfinlab](https://github.com/hudson-and-thames/mlfinlab)
- QuantStats Python library that performs portfolio profiling, allowing quants and portfolio managers to understand their performance better by providing them with in-depth analytics and risk metrics. [QuantStats](https://github.com/ranaroussi/quantstats)

## If you do the above, you’ll be in a much stronger position to succeed in quant finance.
